# Shoulder-Injury-in-NBA
This is a short term passion project designed to help my learning of computer programming and other topics. It's to bring a lot of interests I have into one project. I will try my best to attempt to pull in influences of scientific article style thinking and writing using Juypter and data science. I would like to note that this is my first project like this and it will be very noobie. I invite all criticism and advise on my work as I am using github to develop my skill set. You can contact me at offiaccnt@outlook.com. Just know that this is a secondary email and I might not respond immediately.   


This github page is no way the last draft as it will be edited constantly. It will be almost "blog-esque" so I apologize in advance about the grammar and spelling. I will be using this page to almost think outloud my ideas. I will also attempt to post all of the infromational sources as I go along this hopefully fun and fruitful journey. 

# About my project.

I see the future of scientific articles; the types that are published in "Science", "Cell", and "the New England Journal of Medicine"; will eventually follow the computer scientific community and start to publish interactive Juypter pages in their journals. Why I started to do this is because I'm hearing skeptism about the reproduciblity of science experiments and believe Juypter can provide solutions to the problem, albeit most likely a small one. I have seen only a small bit of what these interactive journals can do with small data points, and that's all it took: I am all in. 

This project summed up in one sentence: This project will hopefull be data driven and written in a "scienfic journal" style while using all the tools Juypter provides.

Like all scienfic articles, I need a hypothesis. I am an avid fan of basketball and the NBA. While following the NBA from my fantasy basketball team, I noticed that a lot of volume 3 pt shooters were starting to show shoulder realted injuries this year: Stephen Curry, Kyrie Irving, and argueable volume shooter Draymond Green. The league and the game in general have been shooting more and more 3's with Stephen Curry spearheading the revolution. While I would disagree, that Stephen Curry caused this uptick in 3 point shooting, he is the undoubtable figurehead in the movement. Noticing these injuries made me think if basketball players are injurying their shoulders because they are shooting too many threes. I don't know the numbers but the average NBA player probably shooting at least about 1000 3's a day in the year. This includes team practices, personal practices, and games. Not only are they shooting more 3's, they have to be shooting 3's from further away. This then made me think, can shooting too many 3's cause shoulder problems like those found in baseball pitchers? I understand that shooting 3's are normally seen as a way to increase the length of an NBA player's career because they are less likely to suffer major contact injuries like Paul George or Gordan Hayward; or suffer major soft tissue injuries like Derrick Rose or DeMarcus Cousins. However, are players starting to show signs of shoulder problems from overuse? This is the big question I will atempt to answer in this passion project. 

The hypothesis is:

The current nba favors the 3 point shot because of its efficiency and safety, allowing the taller athletes to protect their lower extremities from career ending injuries involved with closer attempts at the basket. However, the over shooting at further range creates a new influx of shoulder injuries caused by the increased repetition from the need of practicing 3’s and the neglecting of the shoulder area by the team medical staff in favor of the more popular lower leg injuries. 
